---
layout: post
title: MySQL, PhpMyAdmin & Apache on MacOS Sierra
---
I experienced some issues running MySQL on my laptop for some reason. It constantly kept giving me an error: access denied for user @'localhost' (using password: yes). I solved it by uninstalling completely MySQL and reinstalling again. But instead of using MySQL installer, I used Brew for installing MySQL and it worked. Below are the short steps of what I have done.

For installing phpmyadmin and apache server follow this awesome [tutorial.](https://jason.pureconcepts.net/2015/10/install-apache-php-mysql-mac-os-x-el-capitan/) 
<br>Stop when you finish installing PhpMyAdmin and skip the section where he talks about installing mysql. **DO NOT** connect PhP and MySQL.
Instead use an alternative method presented below. 

Installing mysql on Mac OS Sierra.
<br>Use Brew to install mysql as suggested in the link below. Just follow what it says in the tutorial [here.](https://gist.github.com/nrollr/3f57fc15ded7dddddcc4e82fe137b58e)

<ul> Commands to manipulate with mysql server:
<li> brew services start mysql </li>
<li> brew services restart mysql </li>
<li> brew services stop mysql </li>
</ul>

This Github code will install mysql on your computers without a password. But the password will be needed for accessing phpMyAdmin later.That is why you need to do the following:

1. run mysql server: <span style="font-weight:bold;"> brew services start mysql </span>
2. change the password for your root user: <span style="font-weight:bold;"> /usr/local/bin/mysqladmin -u root password root </span>
3. restart the server: <span style="font-weight:bold;"> brew services restart mysql </span>
4. update your password and username in config.inc.php file
5. this should let you have access to: <span style="font-weight:bold;"> http://localhost/~username/phpmyadmin/ </span>